The programming languages we use, like C, C#, Java, Python,
these are all simple text based languages that we
humans understand; computers don't understand them, they only understand
machine code. So if you have some code written in C, we should
convert it to machine code, and that's the job of a C Compiler.
So a C compiler is a program that knows how to convert or
compile C code into machine code. However, this machine
code is specific to the type of CPU of a computer
so if you compile a C program on a Windows machine we can't
execute it on a Mac, because Windows and Mac have different machine code
just like how people from different countries speak different languages.
Java came to solve this problem. Java compiler doesn't
compile Java code into machine code, instead it
compiles it into a portable language called JavaBytecode,
Which is not specific to a hardware platform like Windows or
Mac. Now, we still need to convert Java Bytecode to
machine code. So Java also comes with a program called Java
virtual machine or JVM for doing this. When we run a
Java program, JVM kicks in, it loads our Java
Bytecode and then at run time, it will convert each instruction to
machine code. With this model, we can run Java Bytecode on any
platforms that have a JVM. We have JVM implementations for
Windows, Mac, and so on. So the JVM implementations
on Windows, knows how to convert Java Bytecode
into machine code that a Windows machine can understand. C#
and Python have also taken the same route, so they are platform
independent. When we run a python program using CPython
first it will compile our Python code into Python Bytecode,
then it will pass that Bytecode to Python Virtual Machine
which will in turn convert it into machine code and execute it.
This is how C Python works. In the last lecture we talked about
various Python implementations. I told you that if you wanna reuse some
Java code in a Python program we should use Jython.
Now, let's see how Jython makes this possible. When you use
Jython to run a python program, instead of compiling your
Python code into Python Bytecode, it will compile it to Java
Bytecode, so we can take this Java Byte code and run it using
Java virtual machine. And that's why we can import some Java code
into a Python program when using Jython, because the end result is
Java Bytecode which will eventually be executed by Java Virtual Machine.